h1. JIBOT: A Ruby IRC Bot For #joiito 

*Version 2.0 (Today, 2008)*

| Authors | James Cox (james@imaj.es)... |
| Copyright | Copyright (c) 2008 + The #joiito IRC Channel + James Cox |
| License | Distributed under the same terms as Ruby. The system heavily relies on Autumn, an irc framework: http://github.com/riscfuture. 
 Portions of this code are copyright (c)2004 David Heinemeier Hansson; please see <tt>libs/inheritable_attributes.rb</tt> for more information. |

h2. About Autumn 

Autumn is a full-featured framework on top of which IRC bots (called "leaves")
can be quickly and easily built. It features a very Ruby-like approach to
bot-writing, a complete framework for loading and daemonizing your bots,
multiple environment contexts, a database-backed model, and painless logging
support.

h2. Requirements

Autumn requires "RubyGems":http://www.rubygems.org and the Daemons and Facets*
gems. Install RubyGems then run @sudo gem install daemons facets@ in a command
line in order to run Autumn.

Jibot requires the ruby-sqlite3: @sudo port install rb-sqlite3@ the sqlite gem: 
@sudo gem install -v 0.9.2 do_sqlite3@  and the "Datamapper":http://datamapper.org/ 
gem: @sudo gem install -v 0.9.2 install dm-core dm-ar-finders@ .

One person's install notes on OS/X Leopard:

On a fairly stock leopard system it was also necessary to add a few steps... "this":http://github.com/guides/providing-your-ssh-key which in which ssh-keygen creates the .ssl folder and public key to provide the github website.

Then to make logging in easier by adding the login to the keychain: 
$ /usr/bin/ssh-add -K

To install git "follow":http://code.google.com/p/git-osx-installer/

Or just use the precompiled one "from":http://code.google.com/p/git-osx-installer/

Configured git:
Macintosh:~ myhomedir$ git config --global user.name 'Firstname Lastname'
Macintosh:~ myhomedir$ git config --global user.email 'your@email.here'

Created a spot and got a clone:
@Macintosh:~ myhomedir$ cd src@
@Macintosh:src myhomedir$ git clone git://github.com/imajes/jibot.git@

RubyGems was already installed on Leopard so I ran the @sudo gem install daemons facets@ above.
Before I could run the @sudo port install rb-sqlite3@ however it was necessary to install "macports":http://www.macports.org/

Then continue by running @Macintosh:~ myhomedir$ sudo /opt/local/bin/port install rb-sqlite3@
and it took  awhile to come back... updated a lot of packages.

Extlib was missing so this was necessary: @Macintosh:~ myhomedir$ sudo gem install -v 0.9.2 extlib@
 Successfully installed extlib-0.9.2
1 gem installed

Then following the advice in README.autumn - had to modify jibot/config/global.yml to point to testing season instead of production.

Modify jibot/config/seasons/testing/stems.yml to point to a different nick and channel to avoid stepping on the other jibots.

Had to manually create a log file in the jibot directory before rake would work.

@Macintosh:jibot myhomedir$ mkdir log@
@Macintosh:jibot myhomedir$ rake db:migrate@
(in /Users/myhomedir/src/jibot)
rake aborted!
Usage: DB=[Database config name] rake db:migrate
/Users/myhomedir/src/jibot/rakefile:82
(See full trace by running task with --trace)
@Macintosh:jibot myhomedir$ script/server@
Loading Autumn 3.0 (7-4-08)
Freenode (Stem): Connecting to chat.freenode.net:6667...

h2. Hacking JIBOT

You should peruse README.autumn first, to get a feel for how it's structured. 
Then, feel free to hack on a leaf (or create your own) to add or augment bot 
functionality.
